# API's continued
1. What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team 
  > Collaboration in Silicon Valley has led to faster innovation. 
  > Google has an entire department dedicated to employees lives called 'Google's People Operations.'
  #### In order to sort out what made for the best teams within Google, they created a project named Project Aristotle in order to study the teams. 
    > While researching what made a team succesful, they kept coming across 'group norms'.  Norms are the traditions, behavioral standards and unwritten rules that govern how we function when we gather: One team may come to a consensus that avoiding disagreement is more valuable than debate; another team might develop a culture that encourages vigorous arguments and spurns groupthink. Norms can be unspoken or openly acknowledged, but their influence is often profound. 
    > When doing the study, they gave the teams different random tasks and split them into groups.  They found that if the group succeeeded, they succeded at every task.  When they failed, they failed at every task. 
    > Most of the successful groups shared two behaviors.  First, on good teams, memebers spoke in roughly the same proportion, called "equality in distribution of conversational turn-taking." Two, they also had "average social sensitivity", another way to say they were skilled at intuiting how others felt based on their tone of voice, their expressions and other nonverbal cues.  They also seemed to know when someone was feeling upset or left out. 
    > Within psychology, researchers sometimes colloquially refer to traits like ‘‘conversational turn-taking’’ and ‘‘average social sensitivity’’ as aspects of what’s known as psychological safety — a group culture that the Harvard Business School professor Amy Edmondson defines as a ‘‘shared belief held by members of a team that the team is safe for interpersonal risk-taking.’’ Psychological safety is ‘‘a sense of confidence that the team will not embarrass, reject or punish someone for speaking up,’’ Edmondson wrote in a study published in 1999. ‘‘It describes a team climate characterized by interpersonal trust and mutual respect in which people are comfortable being themselves.’’
    > Good leaders are direct and straightforward, taking the emotion out of the discusssion. 
    > Having "phschological safety" amongst groups is extremely necessary to have. 
    > One group at Google was thought to have been succesful, but when they filled out a survey, the leader was surprised by the results.  He realized they felt disconnected from the larger picture, and they were unhappy.  The leader started opening up about his personal life, and the rest of the team followed.  Bringing a new norm to the group.  
    > Succesful teams have people who don't have to leave their personality at home.  They feel fully present at work and feel psychologically safe.  

## How I explained REST to my brother. 
  1. Roy Fielding helped write the first web servers, that sent documents across the internet, and then he did a ton of research explaining why the web works the way it does.  
  1. HTTP tells the browser what protocol to use. It is capable of describing the location of something anywhere in the world.  It's the foundation of the web. 
  1. The entire internet is built on an architecture called REST. It provides a definition of resource which is what those things point to.  
  1. A web page is a representation of a resource. 
  1. URLs tell the browser that there's a concept somewhere. A browser can then go ask for a specific representation of the concept. Specifically, the browser asks for the web page representation of the concept.
  1. In most cases, a resource has only a single representation. But we're hoping that representations will be used more in the future because there's a bunch of new formats popping up all over the place.
  1. Well, there's this concept that people are calling “Web Services” or "APIs". It means a lot of different things to a lot of different people but the basic concept is that machines could use the web just like people do.
  1. When Fielding and his buddies started building the web, being able to talk to any machine anywhere in the world was a primary concern. Most of the techniques we use at work to get computers to talk to each other didn't have those requirements.
  1. Machines don't have a universal noun - that's why they suck. Every programming language, database, or other kind of system has a different way of talking about nouns. That's why the URL is so important. It let's all of these systems tell each other about each other's nouns.
  1. There's a powerful concept in programming and CS theory called “polymorphism”. That's a geeky way of saying that different nouns can have the same verb applied to them.
  1. So anyway, HTTP—this protocol Fielding and his friends created—is all about applying verbs to nouns. For instance, when you go to a web page, the browser does an HTTP GET on the URL you type in and back comes a web page.
  1. Web pages usually have images, right? Those are separate resources. The web page just specifies the URLs to the images and the browser goes and does more GETs using the HTTP protocol on them until all the resources are obtained and the web page is displayed. But the important thing here is that very different kinds of nouns can be treated the same. Whether the noun is an image, text, video, an mp3, a slideshow, whatever. I can GET all of those things the same way given a URL.
  1. This is a problem because it has led many people to assume that HTTP is just for GETing. But HTTP is actually a general purpose protocol for applying verbs to nouns.
  1. A machine doesn't care about layout and styling. Machines basically just need the data. Ideally, every URL would have a human readable and a machine readable representation. When a machine GETs the resource, it will ask for the machine readable one. When a browser GETs a resource for a human, it will ask for the human readable one.