# Objects -
  > Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model of something you would recognize from the real world.  In an object, variables and functions take on new names.  
    > Variables become known as properties
    > Functions become known as methods.  
  * Literal notation is the easiest and most popular way to create objects.  
  * You access the properties or methods of an object using dot notation.  You can also access properties using square brackets. 

  ***

  # Document object model
    * Specifies how browsers should create a model of HTML
    * The DOM tree is a model of a web page 
      > As a browser loads a webpage, it creates a model of that page.  The model is called a DOM tree and is stored in the browsers memory. It consists of four main nodes. 
        * The document node
        * Elements node
        * Attributes node
        * Text nodes
    * Accessing and updating the DOM tree involves two steps;
      > 1. Locate the node that represents the element you want to work with
      > 1. Use its text context, child elements, and attributes. 

    * Access the elements
      > Select an individual element node
      > Select multiple elements
      > Traversing between element nodes
    * Work with those elements
      > Access/update nodes
      > Work with HTML content
      > Access or update attribute values

    * Methods that find elements in the DOM tree are called DOM queries.  When you work with an element more than once, you should use a variable to store the result in this query.  
    * You can store the location of the elements within the DOM tree in a variable. 

    * Accessing elements
      > DOM queries may return one element, or they may return a Nodelist, which is a collection of nodes.
      > Methods that return a single element node
        1. getElementById('id)
        1. querySelector('css selector')
      > Methods that can return one or more elements 
        1. getElementsByClassName('class')
        1. getElementByTagName('tagname'
        1. querySelectorAll('css selector)

    * Repeating actions for an entire node list
      > when you have a nodelist, you can loop through each node in the collection and apply the same statements to each. 

    * Traversing the DOM
    > When you have an element node, you can select another element in relation to it using the five properties.
      1. parentNode
      1. previousSibling
      1. nextSibling
      1. firstChild
      1. lastChild

    * Whitespace Nodes
      > Traversing the DOM can be difficult because some browsers add a text node whenever they come across whitespace between elements.

    * Keywords
      1. nodeValue - to retrieve or amend the content of a text node
      1. textContent - Should try to avoid. 

    * Adding or removing HTML content
      > there are two very different approaches to adding and removing content from a DOM tree; the innerHTML property and DOM manipulation. 

      * Adding elements using DOM manipulation
        > create the element - createElement()
        > createTextNode()
        >appendChild()
      
      * doument.write() - a simple way to add content that was not in the original source code to the page, but its use is rarely advised
      * element.innerHTML - lets you update the entire content of any element(inclding markup) as a string. 
    
    * Cross Site scripting attacks
      > if you add HTML to a page using innerHTML you need to be aware of cross-site scripting attacks or XSS;otherwise, an attacker could gain access to your users' accounts.
    
    * Defending against cross-site scripting
      > Validate input going into the server
      > Escape data coming from the server and database. 

    * XSS: Validation & Templates : make sure that your users can only input characters they need to use and limit where this content will be shown on the page. 

    * XSS: Escaping & Controlling markup : any content generated by users that contain characters should be escaped on the server. You must control any markup added to the page. 
        
